---
layout: post
title: JPoint
date: 2019-04-15
header_image: private/jpoint.jpg
header_position: center
header_overlay: true
category: events
tags: ["conference", "development", "Java"]
authors: ["Natalia"]
about_authors: ["nzolotova"]
---

From 5th to 6th of April a large international Java conference [JPoint](https://jpoint.ru/en/){:target="_blank"} was held in Moscow.
It was a very exciting, well organized with different activities event dedicated to Java technologies.
The main focus of topics was on Microservice Architecture, Event Sourcing, testing, productivity and performance of distributed systems.
43 speakers from leading enterprise companies like JetBrains, Oracle, IBM, Microsoft, AxonIQ and many others talked about their experience in using the most popular technologies, faced issues and solutions they came up to, gave Best Practice advices how to be more productive, secured and make our programming world better.

More than 1000 IT specialists met there to share knowledge, resolve coding tasks to win prices and just have fun all together.

To let you understand better the insights of the conference, here is a brief overview of my favourite talks:

## "Java microservices: from Netflix OSS to Kubernetes"

It was a talk where Aliaksandr Nozdryn-Platnitski from Godel Technologies shared "their company's experience of building systems
based on microservice architecture". He told which problems they faced using Spring Boot with Netflix OSS stack (Eureka, Feign, Ribbon, Hystix, Zuul) and how they managed to resolve them switching to Kubernetes and Helm.
He covered benefits of these technologies and their "experience of building CI/CD with Zero Downtime Deployment".

The talk could be very helpful for the experienced developers and architect who planned to move their service oriented architecture from Netflix to Kubernetes.


## "Moving Spring Boot microservices from Java 8 to Java 11: what can possibly go wrong?"

Vladimir Plizga from the company СFT told, which issues the developers can have, if they want to move their Spring Boot Microservices from Java 8 to Java 11. He explained the general pitfalls of the migration process, especially during the dependencies resolution and gave advices how to make it smoothly.

Special attention was paid to breaking changes in the Lombok framework introduced in the new version (https://projectlombok.org/changelog). Vladimir introduced a very helpful workaround, that is highly useful to the developers who are using this Framework.

Vladimir also shared links to the additional information worth for reading that can help to make you app working faster:
[How Fast is Spring?](https://spring.io/blog/2018/12/12/how-fast-is-spring){:target="_blank"}

## "Cloud native, service-meshed Java Enterprise with Istio"

This talk was devoted to cloud technologies. [Sebastian Daschner](https://www.sebastian-daschner.com/publications){:target="_blank"} from IBM explained how to make cloud native, service-meshed Java Enterprise applications scalable and resilient in a manageable and effective way using [Istio](https://istio.io/){:target="_blank"}.


## "Strategies to manage consistency in distributed systems"

In this [talk](https://assets.ctfassets.net/oxjq45e8ilak/7pEyob5KPypV7OPOP1xgVR/60a159afa24867006aecec5c8c4668b0/Bernd_Ruecker_Lost_in_transaction_Strategies_to_manage_consistency_in_distributed_systems.pdf){:target="_blank"} Bernd Rücker(https://berndruecker.io/){:target="_blank"}from Camuda discussed the consistency problems happened in distributed systems.
He proposed possible solutions, including the Saga Pattern. He explained recipes and frameworks that ease the management of the consistency. This allows you to achieve ACID properties in the data and improve performance of the applications.
I highly recommend to read his [blog](https://blog.bernd-ruecker.com/){:target="_blank"} and follow the updates.


## Sumary

I really liked how the conference was organized. The presented topics were very informative and enlightening.
Speakers showed very interesting architectural approaches and technologies I had not known before.

I think that every attendee took away a piece of knowledge and valuable advices that can help to improve their workflow, speed up developing process and have more fun at the job.

I wish to come back to JPoint the next year and hope my developer's dream comes true!
