---
layout: post
title: "ePages YOU 19 - from a perspective of two newbies"
date: '2019-09-18'
header_image: private/you2019.jpg
header_position: bottom
header_overlay: true
category: events
tags: ["company", "events", "workshops", "company culture"]
authors: ["Anna-Lena", "Mario"]
about_authors: ["alanghans", "mkoester"]
---

## Day one

### It’s all about you

This year’s YOU agenda offered many very interesting presentations of different departments of ePages, a cool ice breaker, workshops, and an exciting panel discussion with four online merchants.
And, of course, there was also a fun team event planned.
All in all a lot to look forward to!

Coming to the office last Thursday was a bit different than usual.
Many people were already standing together, talking and laughing in the hallway.
This first impression was already promising a welcoming and more casual atmosphere.
Quickly grabbing a snack, it was time to join the others.

### "Welcome to the ePages YOU!"

Wilfried Beeck, CEO of ePages, gave us an update on where ePages is heading to in the future.
He also presented how ePages is working across the world with existing and future partners.

{% twitter https://twitter.com/epagesdevs/status/1172044512421658630 %}

Afterwards, Tatu Wikman, CTO of the [Vilkas Group](https://www.vilkasgroup.com/), who has been an ePages’ technology partner for many years now, joined us and talked about how Vilkas works and what they offer to achieve the best possible ePages shop solution.
Vilkas is known for its high rate of customer satisfaction.
Tatu emphasized that the key to keep customers satisfied is to support them in whatever they are doing.

### It’s people-BINGO-time!

To raise conversation beyond the familiar office doors, an ice breaker was organized.
This year it was bingo.
We each received a table with certain characteristics.
The goal was to find people who were not working on your office floor and who match those characteristics, so that eventually you’d get a Bingo by putting their names in the table.
It was quite fun and a good opportunity to get to know new people from the company.
So at the end of the day, even if you know nothing else about that person, you’ll know if he or she owns a Madonna CD.

### Know your customer

After a short break we had a panel discussion with four merchants on the agenda.
This was probably our favorite part because we got first-hand feedback in an open discussion from merchants directly using our software on a daily basis.
They addressed what they already like about the current software but also which changes and features they would like to see in the future.

{% twitter https://twitter.com/epagesdevs/status/1172078677452120064 %}

It was great to see what we already achieved in terms of our online shop software but also to recognize what still needs to be done in order to meet the merchants needs.
Thanks again to Kati Decker from superstreusel.de, Imme Hansemann from hansemann.de, Michael Mommsen from nutringo.de and Heinrich Dumrath from chronobalance.de for your time and opinion.

### Work it

After a little lunch break, we continued with several workshops for which we could sign up for during the last weeks.
They all covered different topics, such as usability testing, customer micro-moments and journeys, and a perspective change game.

{% image_custom image="/assets/img/pages/blog/images/blog-you19-2.jpg" width="50" lightbox %}

After the end of the workshops, the different groups made their way back to the presentation room where each group presented what they had worked on for the past two hours.
This way everyone got an impression of what the other workshops were about.

### Keep calm and shoot straight

Afterwards, we were ready for some action.
This year’s team event was archery!
Fortunately, we had the weather on our side.
When we arrived at the location everything was already set up.
All ePagees were divided into 20 teams and we got an introduction on how to use the bows and arrows correctly.
Each player had eight test shots to get a first feeling and then a little competition started.
Overall it was a very cool experience to try out this uncommon sport.

{% image_custom image="/assets/img/pages/blog/images/blog-you19-1.jpg" width="50" lightbox %}

The sport part was followed by the delicious part.
For all ePagees a very tasty buffet with thai curry, rice, falafel, salad, and chicken breast had been prepared.
Everyone filled their stomachs, drank a good beer or a glass or two of wine, and reviewed the day.
As newbies this was our opportunity to get to know new faces and make new contacts.
Eventually we headed home, prepared for the next day.

## Day two

### In the shoes of a merchant

The second day of the YOU kicked off with a presentation by our Product Management team.
They showed us the processes that every merchant goes through when they decide to open an online shop.
It was interesting to see which functionalities are important for our merchants and what happens in the head of the merchant when building their online shop.

### Sales is up next

The Product Management team was followed by a presentation about the recent development in the Sales department.
Our Sales colleagues presented the status of the current cooperation with different partners and also explained which steps are planned in the near future.

### Any questions?

Last but not least our CEO thanked all ePagees for the great event, summarized the recent two days, and answered the last burning questions. 

Before our Jena and international colleagues departed home, we once again set off for a delicious buffet at an Asian restaurant a few meters away and reviewed the last days.

### See YOU next year!

A lot of input, a lot of new faces, but also a lot of fun!
The ePages YOU is a great chance to get to know and connect with your colleagues in a comfortable atmosphere and get everyone on the same page concerning the product and the company’s achievements and goals.
Thanks to all ePagees for making these two days fun and informative, especially for us newbies!
We’re looking forward to next year’s YOU!

