---
layout: post
title: Get in touch – win so much
date: 2020-03-24
header_image: public/job-fair.jpg
header_position: center
header_overlay: true
category: on-the-job
tags: ["job", "hr", "job fair"]
authors: ["Aroso"] ["Elisa"] ["Katharina"]
about_authors: ["amahaiuddin"] ["eprohn"] ["kkoester"]
---

Throughout the year ePages is not only joining various events such as conferences and meetups, but also some job fairs for interested developers which are organized by universities in Germany. You might already have checked our upcoming [events] (/events/) and the job fairs we visit.
At ePages our HR team is taking care of the job fairs and is organizing them. 
Why it is so important for our HR team to visit job fairs and what the HR team has experienced so far, they will tell us in the following interview.

## Which kinds of job fairs do you visit? And how do you decide which job fairs you visit?

In the first place, we are visting job fairs which are organized by universities in Germany.
We want to attract young talents and therefore we choose job fairs near our office locations Hamburg and Jena. 
In Hamburg we visit for example the Stellenwerk Job Fair at the Campus University and in Jena the Firmenkontaktbörse at the University Jena.
Thereby, our main focus is primarly on students and young professionals.

But we also visit job fairs for a wider audience like the Jobwalk Jena which is an open-air job fair in Jena, or the Data Science Day in Jena which is a series of lectures with an additional job fair in the break hall.
In Hamburg we are visiting for example the Hacker X which is a special invite-only event to meet talented developers in a rapid-interview format, to ensure everyone has a chance to tell us their story and background.

## Why are job fairs important for you as HR? 

Basically, it is not only important for us as HR, but also for ePages as a company.
We want to represent ePages and our great company culture.
Job fairs gives us the opportunity to connect with people directly, find young potentials especially for internships or working student positions.
It is important for us to get in contact with young devs again and again, and to give young potentials as many skills as possible on their way as interns, working students, or in the supervision of their bachelor or master thesis.
Furthermore, we want to learn more about the needs of the new candidates but also of course to find new colleagues in general.

## How do you prepare for such job fairs?

First of all we are looking which job fairs we would like to visit around Hamburg and Jena.
After we decided which job fairs we would like to visit, we start with planning different dates over the year. 
Then we plan who is participating which job fair. 
We do not only decide who is participating from the HR team but also from the RnD team to answer technical questions from visitors. 
Later on, we prepare our material which we need for the job fairs such as give-aways, sweets or job descriptions.

## Which employees visit the job fairs? Is it always only HR?

Sometimes we are only represented by our HR team. 
But normally, we are a mixed team with 2-3 employees which also include Developers, Project Managers, or Scrum Masters who are visiting the job fairs as well.
We are really happy that they are supporting us.
Their support makes it easier for us to answer divers questions especially with technical background from the visitors.
Furthermore, they can give a deeper insight into their job position and explain certain workflows.

## What kind of questions do you get asked (typically)? Which questions do you want to be asked?

Well, students are often interested in possibilities like internships, and working student positions, but also in writing their bachelor or masters thesis in our company.
Besides that, they often ask about the application procedures at ePages.
A lot of them are also interested in our tech stack and how international we are as a company. 
We are always looking forward to having a great conversation with the visitors and we are open to all kinds of job-related questions - so there are actually no right or wrong questions.

## What has been the craziest or most curious question a visitor asked you?

So far we did not receive any crazy or curious questions at the job fairs we visited.
But one time we got asked for a goodie (which we distribute to interested visitors): ”Well, I don’t need a job, but can I take one of your lovely “Lieblingskollege” cards to give it as present to my colleagues?”
So some people just want to grab our goodies - that’s nice but we also want them to be interested in our company. 😉

## What happens if a visitor is really interested in a job at ePages? How does the further process looks like on/after such a job fair? And do or did we have an ePagee that you first met on a job fair?

If the conversation with the visitor turns out positive, we often share our contact data with each other. 
Then we contact the interested person in the next coming days and start the application process: We check their CV and references, and ideally organize an interview.

And yes, we have currently two ePagees we got in touch first on a job fair: Our working students Gregor and Konstantin in Jena who both support us in the field of software development.

## Are all job fairs the same? Which highlights have you experienced so far?

One of the highlights was the so-called Jobwalk in Jena as it is the largest open-air job fair in Germany which takes place at the market place.
There are so many visitors and it is really crowded what is perfect for many great meets.
Another highlight was a workshop at the Company Days in Jena, where our colleagues did Design Thinking with students from the University of Jena.
But each job fair is unique and a higlight because each of them is different and also takes place at different places.
We always have a lot of fun at these events.

## Any last advice for visitors of job fairs?

It's always good if the visitors are a little prepared.
They should be able to give us a brief summary of their experiences and projects at their university - it is even more helpful if they bring their CV with them.
That’s the easiest way to find out if there is a match.